In the last module,
we explored why cryptocurrency
might be useful.
Here we delve more deeply
into the rules and
structures that enable
bitcoin to operate.
Note that blockchain was
the technological
innovation that allowed
digital currencies
to take off when
previously so many had failed.
Let's first take a little bit
of a trip through
the graveyard of
failed online currencies.
Does anyone remember CyberCash?
So CyberCash was
a company in the 1990s
that pioneered an online
currency called CyberCoin.
Now, one of the features
of CyberCoin is that
every user needed to obtain
a certificate to
verify their identity,
and apparently nobody
really wanted to do this.
So CyberCash eventually filed
for bankruptcy in 2001.
The technology that was part
of CyberCash was eventually
acquired through several steps
by what is now known as PayPal.
Does anyone remember DigiCash?
So DigiCash also had
an online currency
called CyberBucks.
Here clients were anonymous,
so there was no cumbersome
verification system.
So DigiCash patented
a blind signature scheme
that has some similarity
to bitcoin's protocol.
Now, there was a divide
between merchants and clients,
which is very unlike bitcoin.
Merchants were not anonymous,
they needed to register
with the bank.
So it was not cumbersome
for customers,
but it was cumbersome
for merchants.
There was no user-to-user
transactions.
So CyberBucks failed when
merchants did not want to
register and then there were
no clients that could
trade among themselves.
DigiCash filed for
bankruptcy in 1998.
The technology again through
several steps was
acquired by InfoSpace.
Now, the creators of DigiCash
caused some consternation when
they patented the technology.
So the mailing list, Cypherpunks,
which was a predecessor
of the mailing list
from which Satoshi Nakamoto,
wrote some of
his earliest comments
on what became bitcoin.
The participants in
Cypherpunks decided that they
wanted to create
a online currency.
They weren't so worried
about the patent.
They created something
called magic money.
Another currency around this time
was something called Lucre.
Lucre was DigiCash,
but with the attempt to
get around the patent.
So neither of these were
associated with for
profit companies,
but we don't really think
about them anymore.
It's safe to say,
that these currencies
did not take off.
So these are only four of
many attempts to create
a digital currency.
So enter Satoshi Nakamoto.
In a bitcoin forum, he writes,
''A lot of people automatically
dismiss e-currency as
a lost cause because of
all the companies that
failed since the 1990s.
I hope it's obvious it was
essentially controlled nature of
those systems that doomed them.''
So what's interesting here,
as we had a problem for
which there had been
multiple attempts to solve
it and they'd all failed.
That was probably
pretty discouraging
for the participants involved,
and of course, one
could draw the lesson
of well if it's a hard problem,
keep working on it.
But what's also interesting
is that sometimes there's
insight from all of
these failed attempts into
what specifically went wrong,
and that seems to
be the case here.
But actually let's discuss why
this is such a hard problem.
So if you have a truly
decentralized currency,
what that decentralized
currency must
achieve is a system
of ownership rights.
That system has to be
self-enforcing because it
can't rely on a state.
We discussed this in
the previous lecture.
There's no sovereign. There's
no police department.
So this decentralized
currency must
also maintain a ledger of
transactions that is
secure and accurate.
This maintenance must
also be self-enforcing
because there's no profit-making
intermediary behind the scenes.
In the last module,
we also discussed the role
of the centralized intermediary.
So we need to somehow
have a currency that
avoids the sovereign and
the centralized intermediary.
Now, if that were not enough,
it also must maintain trading in
the currency because
currencies do trade,
and it has to have rules
governing the supply
of the currency.
So we need a sovereign,
we need a centralized
intermediary,
and we need a central bank.
All of this has to
be decentralized.
So it is a pretty
difficult problem.
So I'm going to discuss in
this module how bitcoin meets
these challenges using
cryptography and using blockchain.
So here are the topics
that we will be covering.
First, I will discuss
the digital signature,
and then how bitcoin creates
a tamper-proof ledger.
So these two points are important
for the definition of property
rights within the system.
They are not sufficient however.
That ledger needs to be
maintained and updated.
That's where blockchain comes in.
But even blockchain is really
by itself not quite enough
because of this notion of how
do you decide what is
the correct set of transactions,
that's where we need to talk
about distributed consensus.
Finally, how does bitcoin
become a central bank,
currency supply and trade,
and then what are
some future challenges.